If your community wishes to adopt this Code of Conduct, you must implement the document into your community rules and adapt your moderation practices accordingly.

- Referencing the Code of Conduct
	- If your community has a Discord server, your community rules must state that your community is an adopter of the PGCoC. These rules should be in a dedicated channel (such as #rules). You must include a direct link to the website https://pgcoc.info/. Your community rules will then inherit the Code of Conduct, this means that violations of the Code of Conduct become violations of your community rules as well.
	- If you're running a tournament, you must link to the PGCoC website https://pgcoc.info within your tournament rules or description.
	- If you're a service provider, or game developer, you must state that your service adopts the Code of Conduct within your Terms of Use, or Community Guidelines, and include a direct link to the website https://pgcoc.info/. Your Community Guidelines can be the same as your Discord server rules, but this is not advised.
- Adapt your moderation practices
	- Violations of the Code of Conduct within your Community Space are considered violations of community rules. You are advised to follow standard protocol for regular misconduct your community can handle on its own. Otherwise, your moderation team can delegate the case to the Investigations Committee by reporting it. 
- Notify your community
	- After adapting the Code of Conduct, you must announce the changes of community rules such that everyone can be informed about the Code of Conduct. If the Code of Conduct is amended, the Backer is expected to keep their community informed through accessible means ("Backers will be responsible for promoting and posting the Code of Conduct in easily noticeable places.")
- Become a Backer
	- Once you adopt the Code of Conduct, your community is eligible for becoming a Backer, and be part of the CoC Team. Becoming a Backer means you have access to Investigations Committee Recommendations, can vote on CoC Team matters, propose amendments, and oversee the Investigations Committee.  The community leader must fill the Backer Application form and wait up to 2 weeks for the CoC Team to respond.
