# Puzzle Game Community Code of Conduct
v2.0.0

### Definitions
* **Backer:** Main community leader from a community subscribed to the Code of Conduct and approved by the PGCoC Team.
* **Participant:** All members of any community which subscribes to the Code of Conduct.
* **PGC:** Puzzle Game Community
* **CoC Team:** The team that manages the Code of Conduct and its rules.
* **Investigations Committee:** Independent committee accountable to the CoC Team with the main goal of investigating cases and sending Recommendations to the CoC Team.
* **Recommendation:** A conclusion put forward by the Investigations Committee advising communities to take actions.

### Preamble

This Code of Conduct has been written through the collaboration of multiple members within the Puzzle Game communities; including community leaders, tournament organizers, game developers, and other notable community members. Since the emergence of Hard Drop, Puyo Nexus, and other tournament-oriented puzzle game communities, our objective has been to provide a hub for all puzzle game enthusiasts regardless of physical or social backgrounds. Each community has created its own safety structure and has attempted to work towards its local community's best interest. Each community has the right to address safety risks according to its own procedures and, at their best, they undergo those procedures with care and meticulousness. 

However, certain incidents have put into question the capability to ensure safety across communities, as cases have escalated to involve multiple communities or even the entire Puzzle Game Community as a whole. These cases were handled with a lack of coordination and organization, leading to disagreements among communities and, in some instances, endangering the victim. It is apparent that our current safety structure is insufficient to handle such safety threats that we have a strong interest in preventing. Therefore, we have come together to establish a new safety committee; to standardize a Code of Conduct and organization which functions as a baseline for community safety of all joined communities while keeping each community’s individual agency. This way, we may continue to guarantee our commitment to safety and reestablish lost trust with our peers. 

Our Code of Conduct aims to provide participating communities with the organizational structure to properly handle instances of Code of Conduct violations. We have established new safety measures, such as the establishment of the Investigations Committee, a base list of violations, and the rights of Backers and Team members, along with their obligations.

## 1. Authority

**1.1. CODE OF CONDUCT.**

This is the Puzzle Game Community (PGC) Code of Conduct (PGCoC), a set of rules to promote better behavior in the puzzle game community as agreed upon by the PGC event organizers, tournament organizers, online chat server coordinators, web platform providers, broadcasters, game developers, and other community leaders who we’re calling the Backers. This Code of Conduct will be led by a group called the CoC Team tasked with creating, enforcing, and updating both this Code of Conduct and its own rules.

**1.2. APPLICATION.**

This Code of Conduct applies to all the people we’re calling the Participants, including attendees, users, and players; tournament and event organizers, staff, and volunteers; individual representatives of teams, sponsors, and advertisers; the Backers; and anyone else who attends, operates, or uses any in-person or online events or spaces run by any Backers, which we’re calling Community Spaces.

**1.3. RECOMMENDATIONS.**

The Investigations Committee will have a Disciplinary Process allowing it to receive, investigate, and make decisions regarding reports of Violations of this Code of Conduct that will be known as Recommendations, which the Investigations Committee will then send to the CoC Team. The Backers will be encouraged, but not required, to follow these Recommendations.

**1.4. RESPONSIBILITY.**

All Participants will be personally responsible for familiarizing themselves with this Code of Conduct. Backers will be responsible for promoting and posting the Code of Conduct in easily noticeable places. Participants agree to abide by the Code of Conduct when participating in a Community Space operated by a Backer.

**1.5. MINIMUM RULES.**

This Code of Conduct will be considered the minimum standard rules for any Community Space. The Backers may use additional Third Party Rules and may make their own decisions regarding behavior taking place in or targeting their Community Spaces.

**1.6. LAST UPDATE.**

The most recent publication date for this Code of Conduct is 2023/06/17.

## 2. Objectives

**2.1. OBJECTIVES.**

This Code of Conduct is guided by the following intentions (henceforth referred to as “Objectives”):

**2.1.1. INCLUSIVITY.**

The Inclusivity Objective states that this Code of Conduct is intended to make the PGC a safe and inclusive experience now and in the future in which everyone feels welcomed regardless of race, color, ethnicity, nationality, sex, sexual or romantic orientation, gender identity, religion, disability, neurodiversity, body size, pregnancy or maternity, citizenship, or any other personal characteristics.

**2.1.2. INTEGRITY.**

The Integrity Objective states that this Code of Conduct is intended to maintain and build integrity in the PGC through consistent and diverse leadership, fair tournament operations, and equitable Community Spaces.

**2.1.3. AUTHENTICITY.**

The Authenticity Objective states that this Code of Conduct is intended to pursue the above goals of Inclusivity and Integrity while preserving Authenticity in the PGC’s unique feel, exciting fun, trash-talking spirit, and dedication to competition.

**2.2. CRITERIA.**

The Disciplinary Process will be conducted with the following guidelines in mind, which we’re calling the Criteria:

**2.2.1. OBJECTIVES.**

The entire disciplinary action and Recommendation process, from intake to investigations to final decisions, will be informed and guided by the Objectives.

**2.2.2. TIME.**

The Investigations Committee may make Recommendations under this Code of Conduct for Violations committed by Participants before this Code of Conduct was first adopted, as long as those Violations are part of an ongoing pattern that indicates that a Participant is likely to engage in more Violations in the future.

**2.2.3. LOCATION.**

Recommendations may be made regardless of where Violations take place. This includes but is not limited to Community Spaces, social media, public chat platforms and forums, other websites, venue areas, hotel rooms, private homes, bars and clubs, and so on.

**2.2.4. EXCUSES.**

Violations will not be excused just because Participants may have committed them under the influence of alcohol or drugs or any altered state of mind.

**2.2.5. STANDARDS.**

This Code of Conduct doesn’t replace the legal system and can’t produce decisions as severe as those of the legal system. As a result, the Disciplinary Process should not and will not be bound by the standards and processes that might apply in a court of law. Recommendations will be based on the CoC Team’s reasonable understanding of the facts of each case.

**2.2.6. CONSISTENCY.**

The Disciplinary Process and Recommendations are intended to be consistent and foreseeable enough that Participants should expect to face consequences for Violations. That said, no two situations are the same, and different cases may have different outcomes.

**2.2.7. CONFLICTS OF INTEREST.**

When any person who would normally participate in the Disciplinary Process is confronted with a case involving any of their family members, close friends, romantic or sexual partners, business partners, or community staff colleagues from their organization, they will let the CoC Team know about that conflict of interest and withdraw themselves from any role in that case.

## 3. Conduct

**3.1. LIST OF VIOLATIONS.**

The Violations of this Code of Conduct include:

**3.1.1.**

Engaging in assault, battery, physical harassment or abuse, or any other physical contact with any other person without their consent.

**3.1.2.**

Engaging in malicious bullying, baiting, trolling, or other non-physical harassment or abuse that rises to a level beyond commonly accepted PGC trash talking.

**3.1.3.**

Using or threatening to use a deadly or dangerous weapon except in reasonable defensive situations.

**3.1.4.**

Pestering or stalking any other person or otherwise not respecting any other person’s reasonable desire to be left alone.

**3.1.5.**

Taking photographs of or recording any other person without their consent. Tournament Organizers may authorize staff to photograph or record in a physical Community Space if consent is given through a sign-up form or stated in the event’s rules.

**3.1.6.**

Engaging in discriminatory or hateful statements or behavior, including any based on race, color, ethnicity, nationality, citizenship, sex, sexual or romantic orientation, gender identity, religion, disability, neurodiversity, body size, or any other personal characteristics.

**3.1.7.**

Intentionally outing any other person’s sexual orientation, gender, or other identities without their consent.

**3.1.8.**

Intentionally causing fear or distress in or maliciously abusing power over any other person.

**3.1.9.**

Disclosing confidential information or media, doxxing or sharing any personally identifiable information, or violating any other person’s reasonable expectation of privacy.

**3.1.10.**

Intentionally entering off-limit areas in Community Spaces, this includes intentional, and unauthorized, accessing of staff channels in online Community Spaces.

**3.1.11.**

DDOSing, swatting, spreading malware, phishing, hacking into any other person’s accounts, or intentionally, recklessly, or negligently damaging, tampering with, or interfering with any other person’s property, platform, equipment, other possessions, or network connection.

**3.1.12.**

Scamming or engaging in fraud, impersonation, or defamatory statements or behavior against any other person, this includes making false reports regarding a person to the Investigations Committee.

**3.1.13.**

Tampering with a tournament, fixing any match or bracket, colluding, entering multiple times in a single tournament, substituting or being substituted for any other player mid-tournament or without good faith permission from the organizer, using disallowed game code exploits, or any other unsportsmanlike conduct or conduct that violates commonly accepted PGC tournament etiquette.

**3.1.14.**

Stealing, misappropriating, mishandling, or misrepresenting the amounts or uses of entry fees, prize pots, viewer or other donations, hotel or other lodging fees, or any other person’s money.

**3.1.15.**

Creating a nuisance or hazard by neglecting personal hygiene, refusing to take appropriate hygienic or medical precautions, or engaging in or encouraging others to commit any hygienically or medically unsafe behavior.

**3.1.16.**

Failing to abide by any applicable Third Party Rules, the result of which harms others or a Community Space, regardless of whether said Community Space subscribes to this Code of Conduct or not.

**3.1.17.**

Advocating for, encouraging, being an accomplice to, or threatening to engage in any potential Violations.

**3.1.18.**

Evading or attempting to evade any disciplinary action taken under this Code of Conduct.

**3.1.19.**

Maliciously frustrating and/or obstructing an investigation of the Investigations Committee.

**3.2. UNDERAGED PARTICIPANTS.**

Any Participant is set to follow minimum age requirements and restrictions set by the Backer when attending an in-person Community Space. Backers are expected to follow local laws (i.e. regarding age). Standards of behavior will be higher with or around anyone under the age of 18, meaning behavior that may not otherwise amount to Violations may be treated as Violations if the target is under 18 and if any of the following conditions are met:
1. The Perpetrator knowingly persuades or coerces a Participant to engage in behavior they cannot consent to.
2. The Perpetrator meets with an underage Participant with the intent to engage in behavior they cannot consent to.
3. The Perpetrator commits an indecent act with an underage Participant.
4. The Perpetrator engages in indecent conversation with an underage Participant.
5. The Perpetrator does not respect an underage Participant’s personal space when prompted.

The Investigations Committee shall determine if a Violation took place. Under rare exceptions, the Investigations Committee may conclude a Violation took place outside these conditions.

Anyone under the age of 18 will be deemed unable to consent, including to sexual activity. No persons under the age of 13 will be permitted in any online Community Space.

**3.2.1. EXAMPLE**

If an 18 year old engages in sexual conversation or activity with a 16 year old, this may be a violation of 3.1.1, 3.1.2, and/or 3.3 as it may be construed as ‘harassment or abuse’ (3.1.2) with someone who couldn’t ‘consent’ (3.1.1).

**3.3. OTHER VIOLATIONS.**

This list of Violations isn’t exhaustive. Any other behavior that goes against commonly accepted PGC standards or norms or any of the Objectives may violate this Code of Conduct as well.

## 4. Structure

**4.1. MEMBERSHIP.**

Membership in the CoC Team will include all the Backers, the members of the Investigations Committee, as well as anyone else who accepts the CoC Team’s invitation to join.

**4.2. COMMITTEE.**

The CoC Team will have one committee: the Investigations Committee.

**4.3. MEETINGS.**

The CoC Team will have meetings from time to time to decide issues of structure and amendments.

**4.4. BACKER MEMBERSHIP PROCESS.**

Communities that implement the Code of Conduct have the right to Backer status. Backers must be accepted by the CoC Team. A community applying for Backer status shall engage in the following procedure:
1. The Community accepts and implements the Code of Conduct into its Community rules.
2. The Community applies for Backer status via an online form which can be found on the PGCoC website.
3. The CoC Team has the obligation to review the application within a reasonable time of 2 weeks. During this review process, the Team may conduct research on your community, including verifying the proper implementation of the Code of Conduct (a direct citation or reference to the PGCoC document or website is recommended), the size of the community, the track record of community leaders and any other matter the CoC Team considers appropriate for discussion.
4. The CoC Team reports their conclusions via email, direct messaging, or any other reliable method of contact.

**4.5. UPDATES.**

This Code of Conduct may be updated from time to time by the CoC Team to better serve the PGC, although any changes to it must remain in line with both the Objectives and commonly accepted PGC standards and norms. If the CoC team makes changes to the Code of Conduct, Backers are expected to relay these changes to Participants, but the Participants will be solely responsible for making sure that they stay informed about and for abiding by the terms of this Code of Conduct.

## 5. Investigation, Adjudication, and Enforcement

**5.1. POTENTIAL OUTCOMES.**

Recommendations of penalties for Violations of this Code of Conduct may include but are not limited to warnings, refusals of entry or use, disqualifications, suspensions, bans, referrals to venue security or platform administrators, referrals to law enforcement or other authorities, community boycotts, and so on. Participants who engage in Violations and are the focus of resulting Recommendations may not be entitled to any refunds or repayments. If a Backer is found to have committed a Violation, the CoC Team may release that information publicly and may expel the Backer from the CoC Team.

**5.2. INVESTIGATION.**

The Investigations Committee will have the ability to take in reports about and investigate any potential or alleged Violations and will maintain confidentiality throughout the Disciplinary Procedure. Once an investigation is closed, the case shall remain confidential indefinitely except for the required disclosure given to the CoC Team to apply the Recommendations or, in exceptionally rare circumstances, redacted evidence may be made public with the authorization of involved parties. A breach of confidentiality occurs when an unauthorized party gains access to case information. In the event of a breach of confidentiality, the Investigations Committee must report a mitigation action plan to the CoC Team as soon as possible, with a maximum limit of 72 hours after being made aware of the breach. The CoC Team must meet within 2 weeks after the creation of the action plan to discuss potential modifications to the Investigations Committee, removal of its members, coordinate collaboration in the mitigation, or any other topics the CoC Team needs to discuss.

**5.3. ADJUDICATION.**

The Investigations Committee will have the power to make Recommendations against any Participants found to have committed Violations. The Backers will still have the power to take disciplinary action against Participants who have attended or used or might attend or use their Community Spaces.

**5.4. ENFORCEMENT.**

The Backers may enforce disciplinary action in their own Community Spaces only.
